Pytek has been founded by Francois du Vignaud, with the help of a community of developers who all share the goal of building a Python enterprise framework that will change the world of IT.

Francois started as a quant in the financial industry in the early 2000s. He quickly realized that beyond the mathematical challenges, there were huge technical challenges that were not being properly addressed throughout the industry. After having solved some of these challenging software engineering issues on an ad hoc basis, he then moved to Bank of America Merrill Lynch where he contributed to the [Quartz](https://www.marketsmedia.com/baml-readies-consolidated-trading-platform/) project during its early days. Discovering the scale and the power of this global approach was truly a lightbulb moment for him. This approach - inspired by [SecDB](https://www.goldmansachs.com/our-firm/history/moments/1993-secdb.html) at Goldman Sachs - is based on core in-house technologies that form the foundations of all the systems used throughout the bank. While rewriting one of the key risk systems, he immersed himself so deeply into these core technologies that he was able to come up with alternative core solutions. Later, at J.P. Morgan, he re-engineered key aspects of the FX derivatives e-trading web portal which allows clients to trade in a fully automated fashion either through API or dedicated UI's. He also rationalized the use of computing resources for the FX options business and initiated their migration to the cloud. Leveraging on his experience in these cutting edge environments, Francois started Pytek to offer a next generation Python core technology platform to the rest of the world.